+++
title = "Child-care use and the association with body mass index and overweight in children from 7 months to 2 years of age"
date = "2010-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["J.S. Gubbels", "S.P. Kremers", "A. Stafleu", "P.C. Dagnelie", "N.K. de Vries", "S. van Buuren", "C. Thijs"]
publication = "In: International Journal of Obesity, (34), 10, _pp. 1480--1486_"
abstract = "OBJECTIVES: Studies regarding the association of child-care use with body mass index (BMI), overweight or obesity development show contradictory results. This study examined the relationship between child-care use and BMI z-scores and overweight, as well as associates of child-care use in children up to 2 years old. METHODS: Longitudinal data originated from the Dutch KOALA Birth Cohort Study. Questionnaires assessed child-care use at ages 7 months and 1 and 2 years (N=2396). Height and weight assessed at 1 and 2 years were used to calculate BMI z-scores. Overweight was defined as a BMI z-score of >/=85th percentile. The influence of child-care use on weight development was tested using backward linear and logistic regression analyses. Outcomes were: (1) BMI z-score at 1 and 2 years; (2) change in BMI z-score between 1 and 2 years; (3) overweight vs non-overweight at 1 and 2 years; and (4) change from normal weight to overweight vs remaining normal weight between 1 and 2 years. The association between child-care use and parental background characteristics was tested using backward logistic regression analyses. RESULTS: Child-care use (no/yes) at 1 and 2 years positively predicted BMI z-scores at age 2 years, as well as change in BMI z-score between 1 and 2 years. These associations were adjusted for various covariates (for example, parental working hours). Furthermore, child-care use significantly increased the odds of being overweight at age 1 year. There were few differences in BMI or overweight between intensive (>16 h per week) and limited child-care use (</=16 h). Child-care use was positively associated with various parental characteristics, including parental working hours and maternal educational level. CONCLUSION: The findings suggest a small influence of child-care use on weight development in very young children. The child-care setting could have an important role in preventive interventions against overweight and obesity development in young children. JID: 101256108; 2010/05/25 [aheadofprint]; ppublish"
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
