+++
title = "Personalized approach to growth hormone treatment: clinical use of growth prediction models."
date = "2013-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["J.M. Wit", "M.B. Ranke", "K. Albertsson-Wikland", "A. Carrascosa", "R.G. Rosenfeld", "**S. van Buuren**", "B. Kristrom", "E. Schoenau", "L. Audi", "A.C. Hokken-Koelega", "P. Bang", "H. Jung", "W.F. Blum", "L.A. Silverman", "P. Cohen", "S. Cianfarani", "C. Deal", "P.E. Clayton", "L. de Graaff", "J. Dahlgren", "J. Kleintjens", "M. Roelants"]
publication = "Horm Res Paediatr, (79), 5, _257--270_"
abstract = "The goal of growth hormone (GH) treatment in a short child is to attain a fast catch-up growth toward the target height (TH) standard deviation score (SDS), followed by a maintenance phase, a proper pubertal height gain, and an adult height close to TH. The short-term response variable of GH treatment, first-year height velocity (HV) (cm/year or change in height SDS), can either be compared with GH response charts for diagnosis, age and gender, or with predicted HV based on prediction models. Three types of prediction models have been described: the Kabi International Growth Hormone Study models, the Gothenburg models and the Cologne model. With these models, 50-80\\% of the variance could be explained. When used prospectively, individualized dosing reduces the variation in growth response in comparison with a fixed dose per body weight. Insulin-like growth factor-I-based dose titration also led to a decrease in the variation. It is uncertain whether adding biochemical, genetic or proteomic markers may improve the accuracy of the prediction. Prediction models may lead to a more evidence-based approach to determine the GH dose regimen and may reduce the drug costs for GH treatment. There is a need for user-friendly software programs to make prediction models easily available in the clinic."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = "publications/2013 Personalised GH - HRP.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
