+++
title = "Adolescent growth: genes, hormones and the peer group. Proceedings of the 20th Aschauer Soiree, held at Glucksburg castle, Germany, 15th to 17th November 2013."
date = "2014-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["M. Hermanussen", "T. Meitinger", "J.D. Veldhuis", "M.J. Low", "R. Pfaffle", "K. Staub", "R. Panczak", "D. Groth", "M. Brabec", "M. von Salisch", "C.P. Loh", "V. Tassenaar", "C. Scheffler", "R. Mumm", "E. Godina", "A. Lehmann", "J. Tutkuviene", "S. Gervickaite", "A.F. Nierop", "A. Holmgren", "C. Assmann", "S. van Buuren", "S. Koziel", "E. Zadzinska", "I. Varela-Silva", "J. Vignerova", "E. Salama", "M. El-Shabrawi", "A. Huiji", "T. Satake", "B. Bogin"]
publication = "In: Pediatr Endocrinol Rev, (11), 3, _pp. 341--353_"
abstract = "The association between poverty, malnutrition, illness and poor socioeconomic conditions on the one side, and poor growth and short adult stature on the other side, is well recognized. Yet, the simple assumption by implication that poor growth and short stature result from poor living conditions, should be questioned. Recent evidence on the impact of the social network on adolescent growth and adult height further challenges the traditional concept of growth being a mirror of health. Twenty-nine scientists met at Glucksburg castle, Northern Germany, November 15th - 17th 2013, to discuss genetic, endocrine, mathematical and psychological aspects and related issues, of child and adolescent growth and final height."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
