+++
title = "The D-score: A metric for interpreting the early development of infants and toddlers across global settings"
date = "2019-10-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["A.M. Weber", "M. Rubio-Codina", "S.P. Walker", "**S. van Buuren**", "I. Eekhout", "S.M. Grantham-McGregor", "M.C. Araujo", "S.M. Chang", "L.C.H. Fernald", "J.D. Hamadani", "C. Hanlon", "S.K. Karam", "B. Lozoff", "L. Ratsifandrihamanana", "L. Richter", "M.M. Black"]
publication = "BMJ Global Health"
abstract = "Introduction Early childhood development can be described by an underlying latent construct. Global comparisons of children’s development are hindered by the lack of a validated metric that is comparable across cultures and contexts, especially for children under age 3 years. We constructed and validated a new metric, the Developmental Score (D-score), using existing data from 16 longitudinal studies. Methods Studies had item-level developmental assessment data for children 0--48 months and longitudinal outcomes at ages >4--18 years, including measures of IQ and receptive vocabulary. Existing data from 11 low-income, middle-income and high-income countries were merged for >36000 children. Item mapping produced 95 ‘equate groups’ of same-skill items across 12 different assessment instruments. A statistical model was built using the Rasch model with item difficulties constrained to be equal in a subset of equate groups, linking instruments to a common scale, the D-score, a continuous metric with interval-scale properties. D-score-for-age z-scores (DAZ) were evaluated for discriminant, concurrent and predictive validity to outcomes in middle childhood to adolescence. Results Concurrent validity of DAZ with original instruments was strong (average r=0.71), with few exceptions. In approximately 70% of data rounds collected across studies, DAZ discriminated between children above/below cut-points for low birth weight (<2500 g) and stunting (−2 SD below median height-for-age). DAZ increased significantly with maternal education in 55% of data rounds. Predictive correlations of DAZ with outcomes obtained 2--16 years later were generally between 0.20 and 0.40. Correlations equalled or exceeded those obtained with original instruments despite using an average of 55% fewer items to estimate the D-score. Conclusion The D-score metric enables quantitative comparisons of early childhood development across ages and sets the stage for creating simple, low-cost, global-use instruments to facilitate valid cross-national comparisons of early childhood development."
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = true
projects = []
tags = ["D-score"]
url_pdf = "https://gh.bmj.com/content/bmjgh/4/6/e001724.full.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = false
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
